Project Gutenberg's The Review (Vol. I, No. 10), October, 1911, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Review (Vol. I, No. 10), October, 1911

Author: Various

Release Date: October 15, 2017 [EBook #55753]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE REVIEW, OCTOBER 1911 ***




Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Craig Kirkwood, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)






Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLUME I, No. 10. OCTOBER, 1911




THE REVIEW


  A MONTHLY PERIODICAL, PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL PRISONERS’ AID
  ASSOCIATION AT 135 EAST 15th STREET, NEW YORK CITY.

  TEN CENTS A COPY. ONE DOLLAR A YEAR

  T. F. Carver, President.
  Wm. F. French, Vice President.
  O. F. Lewis, Secretary, Treasurer and Editor Review.
  Edward Fielding, Chairman Ex. Committee.
  F. Emory Lyon, Member Ex. Committee.
  W. G. McClaren, Member Ex. Committee.
  A. H. Votaw, Member Ex. Committee.
  E. A. Fredenhagen, Member Ex. Committee.
  Joseph P. Byers, Member Ex. Committee.
  R. B. McCord, Member Ex. Committee.




SOME PRISON PROBLEMS


[At the recent meeting of the American Prison Association, Frank L.
Randall, Superintendent of the Minnesota State reformatory at St.
Cloud, read as chairman the report of the committee on reformatory work
and parole, from which we print the following extracts.]

To the chief executive officers of penal and correctional institutions
in the United States and Canada was submitted the following question:
“To what extent do you recognize mental inadequacy and constitutional
inferiority among the persons in your charge?”

The estimates are various. Among prisons for adults they range from
3 persons out of 240 in Wyoming, to 10 per cent. in Nebraska and
Philadelphia, 20 per cent. in Rhode Island, 25 per cent. in Vermont, 30
per cent. in Indiana, 30 per cent. to 40 per cent. in Wisconsin, fully
50 per cent. in Kansas, 60 per cent. in West Virginia, 50 per cent. to
75 per cent. in Minnesota, and a still higher percentage of prisoners
lacking in energy, mentally or physically, in one Michigan prison.
Major McClaughry, and Warden Wood of Virginia, wrote that they could
not answer the question.

From state reformatories came estimates covering a range from 25 per
cent. to 40 per cent. only in Iowa, Washington, Kansas, and New York
(Elmira). The writer, regretting his inability to report more exactly,
because the work in his institution has not been completed, feels
safe in concurring in the general approximations cited by reformatory
superintendents.

From the New York reformatory for women at Bedford Hills we have the
following: “Realizing that a large percentage are subnormal, July 1,
1911, we employed a trained psychologist who will make it a year’s
study.” From juvenile institutions the returns are neither more
hopeful, nor more satisfying, and many institutions of that class seem
to have no special facilities for caring for weaklings, and depend upon
a relaxation of the discipline in their behalf. A study of 200 in the
boys industrial school in Kansas disclosed that 174 were mentally dull,
markedly defective, or two or more years behind their proper place in
school. In the industrial school of New Hampshire about 75 per cent.
are reported to be four to five years below their normal grade in
school.

Other letters say “probably 25 per cent., at least;” “one-third;”
“50 per cent.;” “to a very large extent;” and so forth. The Idaho
industrial training school reports: “A very small per cent.; I think
not above five per cent.;” and the Georgia state reformatory reports
that “the discipline has to be based on the fact that 75 per cent. of
inmates are mental defectives and 99 per cent. are moral defectives.”
The girls industrial home of Ohio says: “Fully nine-tenths are
subnormal mentally, and a large per cent. physically weak or crippled.”
From the Iowa industrial school for girls comes the following: “There
is a certain inferiority, either mental or constitutional inadequacy,
in each and every one. In the majority of cases it is a weakness; that
is, they are easily influenced, therefore easily led astray.”

It seems fair and right to allow for a difference among the writers
as to the full import of the question to which they have responded,
but that may not entirely account for the considerable differences in
estimates. Possibly varying court proceedings, and the use of the power
of probation by some of the courts or other exemptions from detention,
may, in some places, have culled out most of the normal children.

Your committee rather inclines to think however that longer and more
extensive experience, in many cases, tends to fix in the mind the
necessary recognition of a grave amount of mental inadequacy and
constitutional inferiority, calling for custodial care, among all
classes of delinquents, including juveniles, no less than adults.

While the incompetents remain with the normal persons in labor, in
school, and in recreation, the progress of the bright is certain to
be retarded by the association, while the outlook for the dull is not
improved. This mingling and attempted classification of unequal units
seems to be the rule almost everywhere, with consequent lowering of
efficiency and tone, to the basis of the inferior.

So far as returns have been received from prisons, reformatories and
juvenile institutions for correction, the average terms of office of
the executive heads during the last twenty years have been about as
follows: In prisons about four and one-third years. In reformatories
for adults about eight and one-third years, and in institutions
for juveniles about six and one-quarter years. These averages are
considerably higher than they would otherwise be, by reason of the
fact that in some states it is not usual to make a disturbance without
cause, and somewhat lower than they would otherwise be, because in
some states each change in the personality of the governor, as well as
each change in party politics, has almost uniformly resulted in the
dismissal or enforced resignation of the wardens and superintendents
of the class of institutions under consideration, quite regardless of
their capacity and fidelity, and sometimes apparently without a serious
inquiry as to the peculiar fitness of the new appointee.

Some of the delegates to this Prison Congress may hardly appreciate
the fact that there are institutions in some states where neither
institution heads nor subordinates attend caucuses, discuss politics,
contribute to campaign funds or take any part in election matters,
except to vote: and where the political preferences of the members of
the staff are unknown to each other, or to their chief. The elections
bring to the institutions no unusual excitement or personal anxiety.

The establishment of truant schools in the cities has demonstrated that
the best and most capable teachers and managers are necessary to their
successful conduct and discipline, and for the same reasons a prison or
reformatory should be manned by the best obtainable talent.

Your committee have made diligent inquiry but have not learned of any
jurisdiction in which the compensation and status of subordinates in
penal and correctional institutions is such as to ordinarily attract
young men and women of the kind and character needed for the work;
and neither do we find that such subordinates are any where required
to have technical training or prior experience, before assuming their
responsible positions as exemplars, directors and officials to those
whose careers have been, at least to some extent, oblique.

With their small pay, and perhaps small chance for promotion, and often
with an uncertain tenure, their hours of duty long, and their work
somewhat monotonous, and depressing to those not peculiarly fitted to
it, they not infrequently have uncomfortable quarters, and but little
opportunity to develop their social side.

It is not to be wondered at that many of the young people who should
follow institution work turn their attention in some more pleasing and
promising direction, and that the service generally fails to measure up
to its possibilities.

Subordinates are found, to be sure, who fill every requirement, and
who could not be improved upon on any basis of wages, but that merely
indicates what might be done, if the appointing power might only offer
inducements for likely young people to come to the institution, and
make them glad to remain.

The State attempts to secure first class work for second class
compensation, and while it may often succeed in individual instances,
the policy is not to be approved.

In conclusion we wish to recapitulate to the extent of indicating in
brief the points deemed by us to be the most important for improvement
in reformatory work, as follows:

1. The recognition of mental incompetency and constitutional
inferiority among delinquents.

2. The segregation of persons of marked inferior equipment and
capacity, and their detention in custodial asylums, and other places
suited to their care and treatment.

(This for the purpose of humanely and favorably disposing of, and
caring for, helpless recidivists, dements, chronic invalids, epileptics
and others.)

3. The furnishing to the public of reliable and important information
regarding the character of the inmates of institutions, and the work
carried on.

4. The need of men and women of higher ideals and higher culture in
places of confinement, necessitating preliminary training, higher
wages, improved accommodations, suitable hours, fair tenure of office,
and opportunity for promotion.

5. The elimination of political consideration from the conduct of the
institutions, and from the appointment of all persons of high or less
high degree in connection therewith.

6. The closest scrutiny into the physical and mental condition capacity
of each person detained, and into his past history and environment.

7. The establishment of a system under which no delinquent shall
be released, unless in the judgment of the board, after searching
inquiry, there is good reason to believe that he can and will maintain
himself without relapsing into crime, and will be of some service to
society; and under which no delinquent will be further held when such a
condition is believed to have been reached.

8. The extension of state agency and other supervisory means for
observing and aiding the delinquent on parole, and for selecting
suitable location and employment for him, and caring for his surplus
earnings.




ECHOES FROM OMAHA


[The American Prison Association held its annual meeting at Omaha,
Nebraska, from October, 14th to 19th. The Review publishes this month
some echoes of the convention. In November further attention will be
devoted to the meeting.]

_Morons in New Jersey Reformatory._--Dr. Frank Moore, superintendent
of the Rahway Reformatory gave an address before the annual convention
of the American prison association at Omaha, on “Mending the Immoral
Moron.” He said, in part:

“In our New Jersey reformatory we have during the last two years made
a careful study of this problem. Each inmate that has been received
has been tested concerning his mentality, with the result that 46 per
cent. were found to be deficients and to have minds that in knowledge
or ability were only equal to the minds of children from 5 to 13 years
old. Fully 33 per cent. or one-third of our population, we concluded
was of the Moron class.

“The problem presents very great difficulties. The ordinary institution
officers declare that prisoners are ‘dopes,’ and sometimes the
psychologist agrees with them.

“The methods employed in dealing with this difficult problem must be
unusually wise. The first thing that seems important is to know the
man. He must be recognized as a defective. A special system must be
adopted to him. His is a feeble mind. To place the same load upon him
that is put upon others is either to cause him to balk or to break
down altogether under the strain. He is a child mentally and not the
abstract, but concrete or kindergarten mode of instruction must be
used. In school he must be separated in some way from the others.

“In his training in work the calibre of his mind needs also to be
considered. The trades that need planning and skill are too much for
him. To the work of the laborer, the farm, garden and dairy he is best
suited, and in them he is really most contented.

“Discipline which is firm yet kind is most successful. The most of
immoral morons that we get have been ill-treated. Those who have not
understood them have tried to beat sense into their stupid heads, and
they are filled with fear and suspicion. They need, therefore, to be
reassured.

“Care must be given to correct such physical defects as are often times
the cause of mental and moral weakness.

“Of the 46 per cent. who by the test were feeble-minded in our
institutions the percentage of physical defects was as follows:

“Defective eyesight, 40 per cent.; flat foot, 35; bad teeth, 32; throat
difficulties, 17; nasal obstruction, 47; total number having some
physical defects, 88 per cent.

“The work that the true chaplain may do is very great. The best way to
mend the immoral moron is through persuasion and influences of religion.

“Our learned friend, Dr. Goddard, of Vineland, N. J., has declared
that nine years is the average age when the tendencies of crime begin
to develop. At this and even an earlier age it has been arranged by
infinite wisdom, it would seem, that religion should begin to make its
formative impressions on the mind.

“Concerning the question of parole or discharge, we cannot agree with
those who advocate that the moron should be kept in permanent custodial
care. Our success with this class on parole has been fully as good as
it has been with the normal mind. Of eighty-three paroled during three
months, not long ago, the morons have made even a better record than
the normals.

“We could point to many other morons who are doing their part well in
the world’s work. They have their place in the economy of society; they
peculiarly fit certain kinds of employment.”

       *       *       *       *       *

_Judge De Courcy on Unpunished Homicide._--Quoting President Taft as
saying that “The administration of criminal law in this country is a
disgrace to civilization,” Judge C. A. De Courcy of Lawrence, Mass.,
justice of the supreme court of Massachusetts, pointed out in a paper
read at Omaha in his absence that the United States is conspicuous for
the great number of unpunished murderers. The defence of insanity,
the limitation of the power of judges and the character of testimony
allowed to be introduced in behalf of the defendant were some of the
evils which, he said, ought to be rectified. “The number of homicides
in this country for 1910 were 8975--an increase of nearly 900 over
the number in 1909; yet but one in eighty-six was capitally punished
in 1910 as against one in seventy-four during the year preceding,”
said Judge De Courcy. “It is said that in 1896 for each million of the
population there were 118 homicides in the United States; in Italy less
than fifteen; in Canada less than thirteen; in Great Britain less than
nine; in Germany less than five.

“In New York City, 119 cases of homicide were investigated by the grand
jury during the last year, but only forty-five convictions resulted.
Chicago reports 202 homicides were committed in that city during the
last year. Only one of the offenders was hanged; fifteen were sent to
the penitentiary and the others were set free. In Louisville, with a
population of 224,000, during the last year, there were forty-seven
cases of homicide and not a single murderer was hanged. In Alabama
a conviction for stealing hides was recently set aside because the
indictment failed to state whether they were mule, cow, goat or sheep
hides. And indictments were dismissed because father was spelled
farther (in South Carolina); because the letter ‘i’ was omitted in
spelling malice (in Alabama).” Judge De Courcy then suggested some
criminal law reforms which included simplified forms of indictments,
change in the selections of juries and in the rules governing
pleadings.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Wickersham on Prison Reform and Parole._--The attorney general of the
United States said at Omaha that in the battles of economic forces
for supremacy, the law must be obeyed, even though it seems to favor
one class as against another. Punishment in some form, declared the
attorney general is still necessary in our land to prevent crime. He
discussed at length the broad question of punishment for crime and the
administration of the federal parole law. Modern penal legislation, he
said, is based on a recognition of the expediency of endeavoring to
reform the criminal. Mr. Wickersham favored the extension of the parole
law to include life prisoners. He regarded it as an incongruity that
prisoners sentenced to long terms for vicious crimes should be eligible
for parole when the man convicted of second degree murder must remain
in prison for life.

Since the parole law was placed in operation last autumn, only one
prisoner had violated his parole. The two hundred prisoners who were
paroled from the time the law was put into effect in the autumn of 1910
to June 30, 1911, earned nearly $22,000, whereas, if they had remained
in prison, the attorney general pointed out they would have been a
charge on the government. Mr. Wickersham expressed the belief that
the parole boards should be enlarged by adding two unofficial persons
selected from among prominent citizens of the locality in which the
prison is situated.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Base Ball in Prison._--At Omaha this question was vigorously
discussed, not unfavorably, but as to the day or days when the game
should occur.

J. K. Codding, warden of the Kansas penitentiary, told of base ball and
other recreations for prisoners in his institution and the discussion
which followed the general expression was that base ball, athletic
contests, moving picture shows and other recreations render prison
discipline easier by affording opportunity to reward those who do well
and to deprive of pleasure those who break the rules.

The statement of Chaplain Le Cornu of Walla Walla, Wash., that Sunday
afternoon in his institution is devoted to base ball, raised a protest
from others, particularly Warden Codding of Kansas and Warden Saunders
of Iowa. Mr. Codding said he didn’t let the men play ball on Sunday
because he didn’t expect them to advocate Sunday ball when they got
out. Mr. Saunders said his men played Saturday afternoon; that he would
allow the men to play Sunday if they couldn’t play any other day.

Warden James of Oregon said he not only had base ball games, at which
the men were allowed to root until they were hoarse, and weekly moving
picture shows, but he intended this fall to put in a gymnasium. Several
wardens said the reason that prisoners in many prisons are locked up
all day Sunday is that the state is too stingy to hire a few extra
guards.

A Colorado woman delegate said the men in the Colorado prison play base
ball without guards, and in the rock camps they enjoy themselves at
various sports, without guards, all day Sunday.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Mrs. Booth on Prisoners’ Earnings._--“Every man who works in prison
should work for the support of his family or those depending upon him,
after his board and clothing have been paid for,” declared Mrs. Maud
Ballington Booth in a lecture at Omaha. “Some officials and law makers
seem not to know that a convict may have a family, yet there is always
this heart-saddened, home-broken circle of gloom, the mothers, wives
and children of convicts, about every penal institution. Wherewith are
they to be fed and clothed? What recognition does the state give to
them, from whom it has taken their only source of support? When this
wife married the man he promised to support her. Then if the state
takes him in hand, why should it not make provision for his carrying
out the promise?

“I know of one case where the state gets $500,000 a year for its
convict labor. A nice little source of revenue! What of the army of
helpless and hopeless wives and children who are being deprived of the
support of these laborers who are their husbands and fathers.

“The helping hand extended to the family frequently has a reflex action
on the man in prison. He decides that if there are people outside who
think enough of his babies to care for them they are worth his efforts
too.”

       *       *       *       *       *

_Shackling Chain Gangs._--At Omaha, during the American Prison
Association meeting, some plain talk was printed in one of the
newspapers, quoted from the lips of some delegates who saw the Omaha
chain gang going through the streets, and who pronounced the shackling
system bad and unnecessary. Word comes now from Columbus, S. C., that
the convicts on the city chain gang who are not disorderly or those who
have not attempted to run away are no longer required to wear the iron
shackles about their ankles. When a prisoner is convicted before the
recorder and given a sentence on the gang he is told that the shackles
will not be put on him if he promises not to give the guards trouble.




BUILDING NEW PRISONS


According to the Kansas City Star, the United States government is
building at Fort Leavenworth a $2,000,000 military prison which is
costing the government only $617,000.

It is building the new prison with convict labor. And when it is
finished about two years from now, it will be the biggest military
prison in this country. With the old buildings, which are to be
remodeled, the completed military prison and accessory buildings will
represent a value of $3,000,000. It will be a model prison as well.
Every improvement that has been incorporated in all the prisons that
have been built hitherto will be found in this one.

Several hundred convicts at the United States military reservation
at Fort Leavenworth are building the new military prison around
themselves. It was two years ago that congress made the initial
appropriation for the new military prison. Practically everything
needed except steel and cement was found within less than a mile of the
building site or the military reservation. So Colonel Slavens began the
monumental work of building a $2,000,000 military prison for $647,000.

He opened a rock quarry, where an excellent grade of building stone
could be obtained. He opened a second quarry where rock for making
lime was abundant, and established lime kilns, and began making forty
barrels of lime a day. A rock crusher was installed. A brick plant
was erected and shale quarries opened for making the 16,000,000 bricks
that are going into the prison buildings. A concrete block plant was
established, where 200 concrete blocks were turned out daily. Sand
for the masonry work is obtained from the Missouri river. Wood for
burning the brick and lime was found in the forest on the reservation,
as well as for scaffolding, and much of the lumber that is being used
in construction. All of these are being operated by prison labor on
various parts of the reservation, while the armed guards look on.
Within the old prison walls iron and wood working machinery has been
put in, as well as tin and electrical working machinery. All of the
iron and steel is being brought to the prison in practically a raw
condition, and the prisoners are working it up into finished product.
To do this it was necessary for the prisoners to master every building
trade.

Long before anything of this work was done the tedious task of teaching
the convicts the mechanical trades began. In fact, it was the idea of
Colonel Slavens that entirely apart from the problem of building the
new military prison, the convicts should be taught trades. So schools
were established, and everything from reading to writing to stenography
and typewriting is taught in classes that meet three times a week.
Expert civilian superintendents were employed to teach the convicts and
act as superintendents of the work in the new prison, and they have
developed some remarkably fine mechanics. Each convict is allowed to
follow his natural bent wherever possible. Electricians, ironworkers,
brick masons, tinners, and a score of other trades have been taught the
men. Two hundred and seventy-five of the prisoners are being worked
on the prison building proper, while an additional 176 are working in
the brick plant, lime plant and quarries. A difficulty is encountered
in the fact that about the time many of the convicts become first-class
workmen their term of service expires. Forty-one per cent. of the
prisoners confined at the military prison are deserters, the maximum
penalty for which in time of peace is imprisonment for two and one-half
years. Many of the others are confined for less serious offenses.

Before any work on the new buildings began, the commandant had to coach
a company of prisoners in the gentle art of housemoving. Forty-one
houses, occupied by civilian employees and guards, covered the site
on which it was desired to build the new prison. These were moved to
a site a quarter of a mile away. Then a fill, in some places a depth
of thirty-five feet, was made, before the new site was ready for the
buildings.

The grounds covered by the old and new buildings comprise an area of
about seventeen acres. A wall of concrete, several feet thick, and in
some cases rising to a height of fifty-five feet, now is practically
completed around this site. A power plant covering half a city block is
about finished. The power plant is connected by tunnel with the main
building under process of construction. An examination of the power
plant gives every evidence of expert construction. It is built of brick
and concrete, with an immense circular brick chimney rising to a height
of over 100 feet. When it is in operation it will be in charge of a
convict engineer.

The main building of the new prison is being constructed on the
radial plan, with the cell, hospital and other wings radiating from a
central building or rotunda. This is for simplicity in control of the
prisoners. By this means eight guards, armed with repeating rifles,
patrolling the “gun walks” of the rotunda and cell wings, will be able
to keep in subjection the 2,100 prisoners that are expected to occupy
the new prison when it is finished. All the necessary utilities for
the maintenance of life will be under one roof when the building is
completed. There will be a hospital, laundry, bakery, refrigerating
plant, amusement hall (used mainly for devotional purposes), and even
the cells will be fitted with individual toilet facilities.

There will be a total of 2,182 cells in the five cell wings radiating
from the new building. There are now 909 cells, containing 932
prisoners. As soon as the new prison is completed there are enough
prisoners waiting in the guard houses of the various military posts
throughout the country to fill all of the 2,182 cells, and they will be
sent to Fort Leavenworth.

The government manifests no anxiety to give out details touching its
business, but the information is vouchsafed that on the lime that is
going into the new building, a saving of 80 per cent. on each barrel is
effected, and that in the case of brick, it is costing the government
60 per cent. less to make it than it would cost to purchase it in the
open market. This, with the saving in labor, gives an idea of how
the government is able to erect $2,000,000 worth of buildings on an
appropriation of $647,000.

The government has no intention whatever of going into the open market
in competition with outside labor. It will manufacture nothing at the
military prison at Fort Leavenworth, which is not used in the conduct
of the prison itself. In pursuance of this policy in the past, it has
built with prison labor six miles of terminal railroad at the fort, and
has constructed and is maintaining many miles of rock road.

There are only two other military prisons in the United States. One
is a provisional prison on Governor’s Island, and the other a small
prison at Alcatraz, Cal., about one-fourth the size of the present Fort
Leavenworth prison. The government has not announced whether it will
abandon these.

When the new prison is finished about $50,000 will be spent in
remodeling the old buildings, some of which are very ancient. One was
built in 1877 and another in 1830, but they are still in a fair state
of preservation. They were originally built for a quartermaster’s depot.

       *       *       *       *       *

_New York’s New Prison._--Great Meadow Prison is now in operation, the
latest and only modern structure among New York’s state prisons. The
Brooklyn Citizen describes it thus, in part:

A couple of hours’ ride from Albany northward on the Delaware and
Hudson Railroad brings the visitor to the station Comstock--a flag stop
for a few trains each way per day. The dozen or so dwelling houses
scattered about the beautiful landscape with their outlying barns and
stables proclaim a farming community. Eastward, about a quarter of a
mile from the railroad depot, one sees a big yellow brick building
rising like a Gulliver above a squadron of Lilliputian contractor
shanties.

The big building is the Great Meadow Prison cell house, about 600 feet
long, 80 feet high and 70 feet wide. Unfinished end walls indicate
that the cell house is only half completed and that another wing of
equal length, height and width is to be added. The completed part of
the building contains 624 cells on four floors. Each cell is about the
size of a New York hall room; is equipped with a white enameled closet
and a white enameled stationary washstand and running water, while the
furnishings consist of a white enameled iron hospital bedstead with
felt mattress, felt pillow, white bed linen and cotton blankets. A
small lock cabinet and cloth rack complete the equipment. The cells
are finished in natural cement; the doors have upright bars from floor
to ceiling, the bars being painted with aluminum color--and the color
effect of cement gray and the silvery aluminum is rather pleasing. A
touch of quiet elegance is even added by the bright nickel plated water
spigot and water control push buttons above the toilet stand and wash
basin. The cell house walls are 75 per cent. windows and each cell is
flooded with light. At night in each cell an electric light, with a
shade throwing the light downward, provides splendid illumination for
reading, writing, drawing, etc. The cell house has a comprehensive
ventilating system, with ventilating ducts connecting each cell.

Opposite the cell house stands the administration building. When
the whole prison plant is completed--which will take several years
yet--this building will be used exclusively for hospital, school
and library purposes. At present the building is used for all the
housekeeping departments of the prison, including bathroom, laundry,
tailor shop, shoe shop, kitchen, dining room, storeroom, hospital,
chapel, library, warden’s office, principal keeper’s office, guards’
quarters and a small dormitory for the kitchen gang. It is a beehive of
activity, with its sixty-odd inmate workers, and a poor place for the
night guards to do their day-sleeping. The halls and rooms are daily
mopped and scrubbed and every nook and corner is kept scrupulously
clean by a gang of porters.

The inmates are marched into the dining hall three times a day for
their meals, including Sunday. The farm operated in conjunction with
the prison and by prisoners (under direction of proper officials)
supplies seasonable vegetables, and now and then fresh meat from
the farm’s herd of cattle and pigs. This gives an advantage to the
steward of the prison in providing a greater variety of food and a
more attractive menu at the same per capita expenditure as the other
prisons in the State are allowed which are not favored with a farm. The
per capita expenditure in all State prisons is limited by legislative
appropriation. The fine air, good water, sound sleep in clean beds and
clean rooms, the daily exercise at work on the farm and at such other
work as is connected with running the prison--all combine to supply a
hearty appetite to the inmates. This appetite is met by a table limited
by the legislature, as already stated, and is limited also for the
men’s own good by hygienic restrictions.

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Prison Farm at Occoquan, Virginia._--An interesting account of
the progress of the District of Columbia’s prison farm was recently
given by Rev. J. T. Masten, secretary of the Virginia state board of
charities and corrections.

The past year’s experience of the prison commissioners of the District
of Columbia has made a great impression upon him, as it has on every
thoughtful student of criminology. Two years ago Congress wrote in
the appropriation bill authority to the prison commissioners of the
District to do away with the jail system by placing the prisoners on a
farm. The sum of $190,000 was appropriated for the purpose. Under the
old system it was costing the commissioners $150,000 to care for the
prisoners each year.

The board took the money and bought a farm of eleven hundred acres near
Occoquan, in Prince William county, Va.

They took the male prisoners to the farm and used them exclusively
in the clearing of the land and preparing it for cultivation and in
the erection of the necessary buildings, one-story frame buildings
erected by the prisoners. To illustrate the economy of the work the
administration building, which is 30 by 175 feet, cost in actual money
two hundred dollars, the prisoners doing the work, sawing the lumber
from the timber on the property.

The work proved a splendid moral and physical tonic to the men. The
prison motto was made, “Reformation, not vindictive punishment.”

At first one guard had charge of six prisoners. Now one man has charge
of twenty prisoners and directs them in their work.

The prisoners do not wear chains and are not bound at night. There are
no bars at the windows and two men take care of 225 male prisoners at
night and one woman cares for sixty female prisoners.

During the first year there passed through the prison farm three
thousand men. There were but sixty attempts to escape--just two per
cent. Twenty of these attempts were successful, or less than one per
cent. of the total number of men confined.

The punishment for the unruly is solitary confinement on a diet of
bread and water and this form of discipline has only been found
necessary for an average of five cases each month, with an average
prison population of 550 men, or less than one per cent. From July 1
to September 8 there had been but four women punished. This shows that
the methods in use, the farm work and country quiet, and the ennobling
influence of honest toil in the open, have accomplished wonders in the
handling of the prisoners.

Then the farm method of handling prisoners is splendid economy. It is
estimated that to complete the rock-crushing and brick-manufacturing
plant, to finish grading the grounds and building the roads and the
erection of additional barns and other outbuildings and to pay the
ordinary expenses of the prison for the year the cost will be $120,000,
which is thirty thousand dollars less than it cost the District to
support the prisoners during the last year under the old jail system.

Within three years, the superintendent, Mr. Whittaker, estimates that
the farm will be self-supporting, and it may be reasonably expected,
the superintendent thinks, that the farm will clear from twenty to
thirty thousand dollars a year after paying all the expenses of
maintaining the prisoners.

It is found that the new system has caused a decrease in prison
population. Many of the prisoners reform, while the class which has
no liking for honest toil and has heretofore taken a season in the
district jail in search of rest and refreshment which they could not
otherwise obtain are fighting shy of the district police courts. It
seems now that, at the present rate of decrease, the population of the
prison-farm the second year will be some nineteen hundred less than
during the first year.

The superintendent, Mr. Whittaker, endeavors to impress upon the men
that it is better in every way to work as free men and earn wages than
to be sent to the farm and be compelled to work without wages. Three of
the best and most useful employees of the farm are men who were once
confined thereon as prisoners.

The products of the work on the farm will not be used in competition
with those of the public. Such products will be used in connection with
the support of other public institutions or in the construction of
public roads.




IN THE PRISONERS’ AID FIELD


THE ORIGIN OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE FRIENDLESS.[1]

The Society for the Friendless grew out of the efforts of Rev. and Mrs.
Edward A. Fredenhagen to apply the methods of Jesus to the redemption
of the submerged masses.

The first home was opened at 1219 Washburn Ave., Topeka, Kansas.
Previous to this, a group of leading men had been interested in the
work. Foremost among these was Judge T. F. Garver. He became the
first president and the counsellor, and his wise counsels as well as
his legal talent have aided in directing the society to its present
carefully developed legal and philanthropic status.

The first tour, to investigate Kansas, was made in December, 1900. The
family reached Topeka in the Christmas holidays of the same year. Work
began at once and culminated in April, 1901, in the organization of the
first board of directors and the incorporation of the Kansas society
for the friendless.

The society was welcomed heartily by Governor W. E. Stanley, and by J.
S. Simmons, superintendent of the reformatory at Hutchinson.

The following June Rev. R. A. Hoffman, just leaving the chaplaincy
at the penitentiary, became the first district superintendent, with
headquarters at Salina, and served the society for six years. He did
a great deal of hard and capable work and left to go to the Colorado
prison association. The next superintendent to join was Rev. Frank
Brainerd, a neighboring pastor of the general superintendent in
Illinois. He remained with the society for seven and a half years
and did excellent work. He left to become general secretary of the
associated charities in Kansas City, Kansas. The third superintendent
was Rev. George S. Ricker, a scholarly pastor, who desired to give the
remainder of his life to work among the lost classes. He is still with
the society, and is senior among all the district superintendents.

By the autumn of 1901 the employment department and the temporary home
were well established. Then the next important step was taken in
the organization in the Kansas Penitentiary of the first of a series
of prison leagues, which were to form the nucleus of the important
department of jail and prison evangelism. Chaplain McBrian became
the superintendent of this league and for the eight years of his
chaplaincy, was the unwavering friend of the Society.

It soon became evident that the religious work in the prison would not
have its rightful opportunity unless the department of prison reform
should be developed in the state. So the society began a campaign for
the passage of the indeterminate sentence and the parole law to apply
to the penitentiary the same as it was operating in the Reformatory.
This passed the legislature in 1903, and has been one of the most
successful laws bearing upon the crime problem, operating in Kansas.
Under it the penitentiary has been changed from an old type punishment
prison to an up-to-date reformatory. The improvement in prison
management has kept pace with the change in the criminal code.

Finding children in the jails of Kansas, the society began, in 1903, a
campaign for the juvenile court act. The bill to introduce it in the
state senate in 1903 was defeated. Then followed the campaign, covering
two years, in which there was delivered over two thousand addresses.
Over twenty thousand calls were made on individuals in the state during
the biennium. Leading philanthropists came to the society’s aid.

The bill passed unanimously both house and senate, and a juvenile court
was established in every county in Kansas. The juvenile court system of
this state is modeled after that of Colorado.

Taking the Kansas society as a nucleus, the general superintendent
accepted calls into Missouri and outlying states. The first step was to
organize a league in the Missouri state penitentiary, under Chaplain
Geo. J. Warren, D. D. Since then the general superintendent has made
twenty-six major and many minor national tours, the longest one being
seven thousand miles. During that period, fifteen states have been
opened to the work of the society. Of these eleven still maintain the
society for the friendless. Ministers of ability and consecration have
accepted calls to be superintendents. There are seventeen of these now
in full service, with two laymen giving part time.

There are twenty centers of religious activity in penal institutions,
originally projected by the society.

When the society was nine years old the first national convention was
held in Kansas City, in January, 1910. In 1906 the original society had
been expanded from a state organization to one including all the states
and territories in the United States. At the first national convention
in 1910 the first elective national board was chosen. Previous to this
the board of directors of the “Kansas and Missouri division,” (Kansas
and Missouri having been united in one unit of territory), was a
holding board for all the work in the other states. In November, 1908,
the general office was moved from Topeka to Kansas City, the office
being in Missouri and the temporary home on the Kansas side of the
line. The first national convention came as a natural sequence. It was
to more completely develop this slowly evolving organization, so that
it would cover all the territories occupied by the living organism--the
society itself.


NEW PRISON HEAD NOMINATED IN MASSACHUSETTS.

Warren F. Spalding, Secretary of the Massachusetts Prison Association,
has been nominated by Governor Foss, chairman and executive of the
Prison Commission, succeeding Mr. Pettigrove. Of the appointment the
Boston Transcript says editorially:

The Governor has supplanted one good man with another good man. That
Mr. Pettigrove was not to be reappointed was announced by the governor
some weeks ago, and yet Mr. Pettigrove’s friends hoped that he would
reconsider, as he had done on so many other occasions. There will be
regret at the passing of Mr. Pettigrove, who, in the many years in
which he has been prison commissioner has served the State well and
given his department the benefit of long experience and real ability.
The public, while regretting the departure of Pettigrove, will welcome
the incoming of Spalding. As secretary of the Massachusetts prison
association for many years, and backed by his long experience in prison
labor affairs, Mr. Spalding has been one of the foremost prison men
of the United States. The association of which he is the secretary
has been a leader in progressive ideas on prison management, and in
this Mr. Spalding has been the executive officer and initiator. There
will be no question whatever of the progressiveness of Mr. Spalding’s
administration and of the value of his services to the State.

Mr. Spalding is not unfamiliar to that office, having been secretary of
it from 1879 until he resigned in 1888.

Mr. Spalding was born in Hillsboro, N. H., Jan. 14, 1841, but was
educated in the public schools of Nashua, N. H. After leaving school
he engaged in the furniture business in his native place for several
years, and in 1870 came to Boston. There he became connected with the
Boston Daily News, and later worked for the Globe and the Commercial
Bulletin, both as a reporter and an editor.

Since 1872 he has been a resident of Cambridge and represented a
district in that city in the general court during 1894 and 1895. He has
been engaged in prison work for many years, having been secretary of
the Massachusetts Prison Association since 1890. In 1896 Mr. Spalding
was elected to the Cambridge Board of Aldermen. Mr. Spalding was a
private in Co. F, 1st New Hampshire Heavy Artillery, during the Civil
War and is a member of Post 186, G. A. R.

The governor’s nomination must be approved by the governor’s council.


PRISON SUNDAY.

This day was observed as usual in several states on either the fourth
or last Sunday in October. The Connecticut prison association, in
issuing a call, directed attention to the fact that the great need in
that state is a change in our treatment of petty offenders. “We made
great progress in the treatment of these cases when we established the
probation service, which keeps many out of jail. But during 1910 there
were 10,468 commitments to our county jails. Six thousand and fifty of
these, by their own admission, has been in prison before.”

In New York the prison association sent special letters to about 1,500
pastors, 200 of whom responded favorably. Special literature was
furnished each pastor.


NEW YORK’S PRISON NEEDS.

In an interview in the New York Sun, O. F. Lewis, general secretary of
the prison association of New York, said recently:

“The principal prison needs of this State are a separate cell for each
prisoner in State prisons, employment for eight hours a day for all
able-bodied men in State prisons, the marketing of all prison-made
products in this State to the State and its political subdivisions,
such as counties and cities; the introduction and development of
industries in our county penitentiaries and jails; the centralization
of administration of our penitentiaries and jails under a proper
department of the State; the abolition of idleness and filth in many of
our jails; the development of the women’s farm and the farm colony for
vagrants and tramps; the creation of a separate institution or separate
wings of an existing institution for feeble-minded criminals, not the
insane criminals--and other things too numerous to mention.

“They had just such a jail situation in England thirty years ago, when
the State took over all the local prisons, that correspond to our
county jails. To-day all these institutions are under the management
of the prison commissioners of England, a body that no one would think
of accusing of the least bit of graft, and the institutions are run
with regard to the rights of the prisoner and the welfare of society.
That is our great need--that the state should manage the correctional
institutions within its borders through boards of managers, at least in
part.”

FOOTNOTE:

[1] Abridged from the last issue of the society’s publication, “The
First Friend.”




EVENTS IN BRIEF


[Under this heading will appear each month numerous paragraphs of
general interest, relating to the prison field and the treatment of the
delinquent.]

_Going to School at Charlestown, Mass._--The Hartford, Conn., Times,
tells of a summer school for illiterate prisoners which was started
this season by Benjamin F. Bridges, warden of the state prison at
Charlestown, Mass. A school has existed in the state prison for many
years, but it was Warden Bridges who placed it upon a practical basis,
such as has made it a power for good.

In the correspondence school, as in the other, the teachers are all
prisoners. As soon as a man is sent to the prison and has become
accustomed to his surroundings he is interviewed by one of the teachers
to ascertain if he wishes to study and improve his mind while in
prison. If he does, he is given an application blank, and he fills out
the list of studies he wishes to pursue.

If there is doubt as to his ability to enter some classes he has a
private examination by the teacher in elementary subjects. If he shows
ability to enter the correspondence school he receives material and
lesson blanks, and works out his exercises in his own cell in his spare
time, sending his answers to the school office. There his work is
carefully inspected, and if it is satisfactory new work is sent to him.

The prisoners entered in this correspondence school never assemble in
classes, but all their work is done in their own cells, lights being
allowed until nine o’clock for such study. While the prisoner-teachers
rarely, if ever, see their pupils after they have joined the
correspondence school, the hold the teachers obtain upon the respect
and interest of the solitary students is truly wonderful.

A teachers’ association was formed recently in the prison, and these
men meet at intervals with the prison chaplain to map out lessons and
arrange other details of the work. There is almost no limit to the
amount of advanced work that may be undertaken.

As the work of the school in the prison progressed it became evident
that it kept the men employed and gave them less opportunity to grow
morose and desperate. It was found that they were more contented and
cheerful, and with education, in many cases, came a pronounced change
in character, a reformation that was not assumed in any way, but a
natural result of the change from ignorance to intelligence and a
knowledge of their own ability to make a way in the world if given
an opportunity. The deportment of the prisoners improved wonderfully
and has been first class since the school work was started by General
Bridges, many years ago.

This spring General Bridges took steps to establish a day summer school
for the illiterate prisoners. There are usually about eight hundred odd
prisoners in the institution, and from the entire lot about forty were
selected as being thoroughly illiterate and have been placed in this
newly started class.

In the forty prisoners in the class are represented no less than twelve
different nationalities. A mere glance at the men constituting the
class is sufficient to indicate that ignorance has been the cause for
most of the class finding themselves in prison.

This class in the prison school were allowed to assemble in one room
in the institution, and they had desks like ordinary school children.
Now every one of the forty prisoners can read, write and cipher in a
very creditable manner. It is a new experience to them to be able to
read, and their interest in newspapers and stories from simple books
impresses one who sees it for the first time.

Some of the men in this illiterate class could not speak English when
they entered it, and now they fairly love the warden for having made
it possible for them to communicate with their relatives and former
friends, although such communications have all to pass inspection
before they leave prison.

The ages of the men in this school class run from twenty to forty-five.
Some of them will be eligible for parole in a few years and they are
looking forward to the fact that they will be able to write out their
own applications for such parole.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Police Condemn Crime Pictures._--In reply to requests sent to police
heads by the State Charities Aid and Prison Reform Association of
New Jersey for information concerning moving picture shows and their
influence on the young, these replies have been received:

“I am heartily in favor of legislation which would prevent the
exhibition of pictures showing any action which in real life would be a
crime.”--Chief of Police Corbitt of Newark.

“I think they are the cause of 20 per cent. of our crime, especially of
petty larceny. These shows cannot locate in our town.”--Nutley.

“In my opinion, moving picture shows are bad for women and children.
I know where children steal to get money for shows; also where women
neglect their families to go.”--Weehawken.

“Children are inclined to steal in order to go there; also neglect
their studies.”--Passaic.

“I had a case drawn to my attention of a five-year-old boy who attended
a cheap picture show where there was shown a picture with a hold-up in
it. This boy’s mother was ill. The child got an old revolver, walked
into his mother’s room and told her to throw up her hands. When he was
asked where he had learned that he answered he saw it in the show.
I believe if the revolver had been loaded some one would have been
killed.”--Hackensack.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Big Brothers in Atlanta and Macon._--Atlanta’s probation system for
adults, which embraces drunkards, vagrants, wife beaters, deserters
of families and the like, is to be materially enlarged in scope and
made more efficient through the development of a volunteer probation
force of 100 business and professional men who are willing to give a
few hours of their leisure time each week in an effort to save the men
and youths who come under the supervision of the probation officer.
This volunteer force will work in conjunction with Officer Coogler and
the Prison Association of Georgia, which has headquarters at 404 Gould
building.

In Macon, Lewis J. Bernhardt, agent of the Georgia prison association,
has secured 100 names of Macon people who will aid in the perfection
of an organization in that city to cope with conditions in the city and
county prisons and convict camps and to aid in securing a better penal
system for Georgia.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Radical Experiments in Oregon._--According to the Newark Evening
News, Governor West of Oregon has inaugurated an “honor system” with
astonishing results. Chains and stripes have been abolished. Convicts
are put at work outside the prison walls, without guard on roads, farms
and buildings, on their word that they “will not throw the governor
down.” They are given a chance to fit themselves for useful callings,
are assured of parole, with work at good wages, when they deserve it.
There have been but three attempts at escape since the system was
inaugurated six months ago. The new system is carefully worked out. The
state prison aid society works with the state parole board and governor
to find remunerative employment for paroled men. Men that have proven
reliable and efficient on prison work are recommended for parole; a job
is secured them. If they get a better one they can take it. But they
must work! And every man of the fifty paroled in the last three months
has made good.

When Governor West inaugurated his guardless, outside policy he sent
for a fifteen-year convict. “Put him on the street car, give him car
fare; don’t send a guard, and tell him to come to my office,” the
governor ’phoned the astonished warden. The man came, and went into
executive conference with the governor. The plan was outlined, the
honor system worked out, and the man went back to the prison on the
next car and spread the news through the 450 men behind the walls. Once
the governor sent half a dozen long-term men to town to see the sights
for half a day and report back to the warden by sundown. They had a
good time and reported back to the minute, sober and contented.

When the convicts were first sent out to work alone on the roads the
farmers protested loudly. But the men soon proved that they were human,
were living up to their honor pledge and were making better roads for
the farmers than the farmers could make for themselves. The farmers of
Marion county, where the prison is, are now the heartiest supporters of
the new policy.

Is it safe to let convicts out without a guard? From January to July
this year, with 150 men working outside, without guard, but three have
escaped, and all three were “weak in the head,” and should have been in
the asylum. During the same period two years ago, some ten men escaped,
though under heavy guard all the time. During the latter part of 1909
an attempt was made to work prisoners outside under heavy guard. In a
few months eighteen escaped, and on October 6, 1909, six overpowered
their guards, took their guns away from them and fled to the hills.
Four were recaptured, wounded. Two were killed. Then the cry went up
that prisoners couldn’t be worked outside the penitentiary because it
would take more guards than there were prisoners.

Governor West solved this problem by doing away with the guards. All
there is to the new prison policy of Governor West’s is this: “Give the
men a chance. If they don’t take it you have done your part.” But they
do take it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Convicts May Raise Trees._--It is not illegal for convicts to be
employed in reforestation as planned by the conservation commission,
according to Attorney General Carmody of New York State, nor is it
illegal to sell trees raised by convict labor for the reforestation of
private lands.

       *       *       *       *       *

_A Candidate’s Proclamation._--E. C. O’Rear, a gubernatorial candidate
in Kentucky, has stated his convictions on prison labor thus:

“If elected Governor I will recommend the submission to the people of
an amendment to the constitution allowing convict labor to be used in
building and repairing the public highways and for no other purpose,
outside the walls. It is best for the prisoners themselves to be
so employed and until such an amendment to the constitution can be
secured, my contention is that they should be employed, whatever they
do, at the same wage that is paid the same character of labor outside
the prison walls; and that the profit of their labor be applied by the
State to the maintenance of the families of the convicts instead of
going to and enriching the contractors.”

Judge O’Rear also agrees with the following plank in the Republican
platform:

“We demand the enactment of a law providing for bi-partisan control of
penal and charitable institutions, and for the abolition of contract
convict labor; and we denounce the board of prison commissioners in
hiring out the children under their charge at the reform school for the
benefit of whose morals and education that institution was originally
established.”

       *       *       *       *       *

_Plans for a New Sing Sing._--That there is no need for the proposed
new Harlem prison in Wingdale and that the present Sing Sing prison,
New York, should be improved and retained is the opinion of Joseph F.
Scott, superintendent of State Prisons. Plans tentatively mapped out
will save the State at least $2,000,000. By expending $1,000,000 for
improvements in Sing Sing, including the construction of a new cell
block to accommodate 1,500 prisoners, and employing convict labor on
the proposed improvements. Mr. Scott believes the institution can be
used to as good advantage as the proposed new Harlem prison. Sing Sing
is more accessible to New York city and at least $40,000 to $50,000
would be saved annually in the cost of the transportation of prisoners
and freight, it is said.

“Outside of the cell block at Sing Sing the present prison plant is all
right,” Mr. Scott is reported to have said, “and with a new cell block
at Sing Sing and the 600 cell-capacity at the Great Meadows prison
completed to its contemplated 1,200-cell capacity, the State would have
a capacity of 1,200 cells each at Auburn, Dannemora, Great Meadows and
Sing Sing, or for 4,800 convicts, and the present prison population
is 4,500. So far the State has expended $400,000 at Bear Mountain
and Wingdale in the attempt to get a new prison, and to complete the
Wingdale project would cost $3,000,000 more.

“There are many features about the Wingdale site which make it too
costly and unsuitable for a prison. Transportation of convicts and
supplies would cost $50,000 a year more than at Sing Sing, and it would
cost $250,000 more than anticipated for a water supply and sewerage and
grading. A portion of the Wingdale site is swampy, also.”

       *       *       *       *       *

_New York Lockups._--There are now in the state of New York, according
to the Commission on Prisons of New York, about 500 police stations and
town and village lockups. During the past two years practically every
one of them has been visited by an inspector from this department. The
commission has been endeavoring to remedy some of the recognized evils
quite prevalent in their management, and to insist upon more adequate
provision for housing police prisoners and for more sanitary conditions
in these local jails.

It has been insisting that there should be a more complete segregation
of women from men than that now provided in some cases. Another evil
which has received attention and criticism has been the common practice
of commingling police prisoners with tramps or lodgers and the failure
to segregate boys and adults.

Prisoners held in these lockups have been arrested simply on suspicion
and have not had any hearing, and are entitled to decent and humane
treatment. With many of them are common drunks, others are of a more
reputable class and should not be locked up in crowded unsanitary
quarters with tramps and hoboes of the worst kind. The commission has
been insisting that these evils be minimized, and that if localities
desire to have a lodging place for tramps it should be entirely
separate from the quarters where prisoners are confined who are charged
with offenses but who will be later allowed opportunity for defense
before a court.

Through the persistent efforts of the commission great improvements
have been made in these respects in very many of the towns, villages
and smaller cities of the state, and the commission believes in its
duty to prosecute this work still further until the evils heretofore
arising from the improper housing and unwise coming of these various
classes of people shall be eliminated.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Detroit Aids Dependent Families of Prisoners._--In the Review for
March, 1911, we described the financial success of the Detroit House of
Correction. From the annual report of the board of poor commissioners
of Detroit we learn that between July 1, 1910, and June 30, 1911, 88
families, comprising 360 dependent persons, were supported by the wages
that the husband and father earned while confined in the house of
correction. The sum expended for the dependent families was $3,355.

There have been many families who would have gone in absolute want
rather than appeal to the city for aid, but under this ordinance they
were given the right to requisition a portion of the wages which the
head of the household was earning while imprisoned, and they have
not felt that they were receiving gifts of charity. Tables prepared
with the report show that of the 88 families assisted from the house
of correction fund, 39 were Americans, 19 Polish, 10 Austrians, 10
Canadians, and five Germans, while English, Irish, Scotch, Russians and
Negroes had but one family each. Seventy-nine of the offenders were
sentenced from the police court and nine from the recorder’s court on
charges ranging from bigamy and forgery to failure to send children to
school.

The report also embodies the suggestion that some system of adequate
and permanent relief is needed by means of which provision can be made
for widows and their children. Three hundred and forty-five widows with
young children, or 24 per cent. of the total number of cases, aided by
the poor commissioners, were assisted during the year. Commenting upon
this fact, the report says:

“When we think that the average income of these families is not more
than $4 or $5 a week, it is impossible to believe that these children
are properly fed, housed and clothed. Can we wonder that so many of
the children in these families go astray and find their way into the
juvenile court detention homes and reformatories?”

Reporting to the American prison association at Omaha, William H. Venn,
parole officer for Michigan, outlined the compensation plan operated
in the Detroit House of Correction, which he said had met with general
commendation.

“On July 6, 1911, the Detroit House of Correction passed its fiftieth
milestone. During the last thirty-two years over $1,000,000 in
profits have been turned over to the city of Detroit, the families
of prisoners, and to the prisoners themselves. Since 1880 the city
of Detroit has annually received sums ranging from $9,016.83 to
$52,711.64. The original expenditure by the city of $189,841.36 has
been turned back into the treasury of the municipality, the institution
has paid its own way, and in the fifty years has shown a fine balance
of $1,254,178.15. In addition to this showing, since July, 1901, the
prisoners have been receiving financial benefits ranging from $5,958.14
to $9,670.38 annually.

“In addition to amounts paid to prisoners, some of which is sent by
the men to their families, provision is made for the families of those
who are imprisoned on the charge of abandonment. This is accomplished
under a statute which provides that $1.50 per week for the wife and an
additional 50 cents for each child under fifteen years of age be paid
them out of the funds of the institution.”

       *       *       *       *       *

By oversight there was omitted from the article in the September
REVIEW, by Mr. Whitin on Prison Labor Legislation in 1911, a footnote
stating that the article had been prepared for the Labor Legislation
Review, Vol. 1, No. 3.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

The one footnote has been moved to the end of its article and relabeled.

Illustrations have been moved to paragraph breaks near where they are
mentioned.

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typographical errors have
been corrected.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Review (Vol. I, No. 10), October,
1911, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE REVIEW, OCTOBER 1911 ***

***** This file should be named 55753-0.txt or 55753-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/5/7/5/55753/

Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Craig Kirkwood, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

